# Adding ExtAngular to an Existing Angular Application

The guides provides the steps necessary to add ExtAngular to an existing Angular application.

## Requirements

ExtAngular requires the following:

* Node 8.11+
* NPM 6+
* Angular 7+
* Webpack 4+
* Java 8 *


## Installing ExtAngular Packages from NPM

*Note: you must be signed into the Sencha NPM registry to access the ExtReact packages. See [Authenticating to Sencha's NPM Registry](getting_started.html#getting_started_-_authenticating_to_sencha_s_npm_registry) for more information.*

Run the following commands to install ExtReact and its dependencies:

```bash
npm install --save @sencha/ext-react
npm install --save @sencha/ext @sencha/ext-modern @sencha/ext-modern-theme-material
npm install --save-dev @sencha/ext-react-webpack-plugin @sencha/ext-react-babel-plugin html-webpack-plugin
```

ExtReact also provides a number of optional packages [listed here](packages.html)

## Configuring Webpack

ExtReact requires a webpack plugin to bundle and optimize the ExtReact components you use in your application.  Add it to your webpack config as follows:

```javascript
// import the plugins
const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require('html-webpack-plugin')
const ExtReactWebpackPlugin = require('@sencha/ext-react-webpack-plugin');
...

// then, in your webpack config options:
return {
  plugins: [
    new HtmlWebpackPlugin({
      template: 'index.html',
      hash: true
    }), 
    new ExtReactWebpackPlugin({
      port:port,
    }) 
  ]
}
```

*Note: If you're using `html-webpack-plugin`, make sure it comes before `ExtReactWebpackPlugin` in the plugins array so that tags for ext.js and ext.css are included in the resulting index.html.*

If using webpack-dev-server, make sure that the build directory is in the `contentBase` config.  

```
contentBase: "./build"
```

If `contentBase` is set to another directory, you can change the value to an array and add "build":

```
contentBase: ["static", "./build"]
```

For more information on configuring the ExtReactWebpackPlugin, see [Building with Webpack](webpack_and_babel.html).

You can also use the [webpack configuration file in the ExtReact Modern Boilerplate](https://github.com/sencha/ext-react/blob/master/packages/ext-react-modern-boilerplate/webpack.config.js) for reference

## Configuring Babel

In order to build your application, `@sencha/ext-react-babel-plugin` must be included in your babel configuration and __ES6 module transpilation must be turned off__.  Here is an example .babelrc:

```javascript
{
  "presets": [
    [ "es2015", { "modules": false } ],
    "stage-2",
    "react"
  ],
  "plugins": [
    "@sencha/ext-react-babel-plugin"
  ]
}
```

*Note: disabling ES6 module transpilation in babel doesn't prevent you from using `import` statements. It just defers the processing of those statements to Webpack, which enables tree-shaking and will help descrease the size of your application bundle.*

## Updating index.html

If you're using `html-webpack-plugin`, the JavaScript and CSS resources generated by `ExtReactWebpackPlugin` will automatically be added to your index.html file at build time.  If not, you'll need to add them manually:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html>
<head>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1, user-scalable=no">
    <link href="ext-react/ext.css" rel="stylesheet">
    ...
</head>
<body>
    ...
    <script type="text/javascript" src="ext-react/ext.js"></script>
    ...
</body>
```

### HTML Doctype

The HTML5 doctype declaration is required for ExtReact components to display properly.  Please make sure that this declaration is present at the top of your HTML document:

```html
<!doctype html>
```

### Viewport Meta Tag

ExtReact requires a viewport meta tag.  This should be added to the `<head>` element in your index.html.

```html
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1, user-scalable=no">
```

## Launching your Application

The `@sencha/ext-react` package provides a `launch` function to using instead of `ReactDOM.render()`:

### `launch(React.Element/Function)`

To launch your app, add the following to your index.js file (your webpack entry point):
When using with React v16 and above, developers need to add a new component called      ExtReact at the root before using Ext JS component. Best way is to add it at the application’s entry point or launch method and then ExtJS Component can be used anywhere throughout application.


```javascript
import { launch } from '@sencha/ext-react';
import { ExtReact } from '@sencha/ext-react'

import App from './App';

launch(<ExtReact><App/><ExtReact>);
```

The launch function renders the specified component into the document body. It also accepts a callback function that returns the component to be rendered:

```javascript
launch(() => {
  // do some initialization before initial render
  // ...
  
  // return the component to be rendered
  return <App/>;
})
```

The `launch` function serves two purposes:

1. It delays your App's initial render until the ExtReact class system is fully initialized
2. It creates a viewport, which is needed for creating components that take up the full height and width of the screen. 

When using `launch` you do not need a separate target `<div id="root"/>` in your `index.html` file. If you have one you 
should remove it. The code above replaces the typical code for launching a React app, which generally looks something like:

```javascript
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import App from './App';

ReactDOM.render(<App/>, document.getElementById('root'));
```    

### renderWhenReady(Component)

If you do not need to create fullscreen components (for example if you're using ExtReact components with another layout system), you can apply the `renderWhenReady` higher-order component to topmost component containing an ExtReact element, omit the launch function, and render to a target element as is customary with React.  This is especially useful if you're building a library of components based on ExtReact and you don't want to require the applications that use your library to call `launch`.

```jsx
// App.js
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import { Panel } from '@sencha/ext-modern';
import { renderWhenReady } from '@sencha/ext-react';

class App extends Component {
    render() {
        return (
            <Panel title="ExtReact">Hello World!</Panel>
        )
    }
}

export default renderWhenReady(App);
```

```jsx
// index.js
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import App from './App';

ReactDOM.render(<App/>, document.getElementById('root'));
```

### React Hot Loader

Here is an example that uses the launch function's callback parameter to enable react-hot-loader.  The callback is passed a DOM element that can be used as the target when calling `ReactDOM.render`.

```javascript
import React from 'react'
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom'
import { AppContainer } from 'react-hot-loader'
import { launch } from '@sencha/ext-react';
import { ExtReact } from '@sencha/ext-react'
import App from './App'

let viewport;

const render = (Component, target) => {
    ReactDOM.render(
        <ExtReact>
            <AppContainer>
                <Component/>
            </AppContainer>
        </ExtReact>,
        target
    )
}

launch(target => render(App, viewport = target));

if (module.hot) {
    module.hot.accept('./App', () => render(App, viewport));
}
```

## The `fullscreen` config

Most apps that use ExtReact are single-page applications that occupy the full height and width of the browser window.  To acheive this, the root ExtReact component in your app should be configured with the `fullscreen` prop set to `true`.  For example:

```javascript
import { Container } from '@sencha/ext-modern';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <Container fullscreen>
      ...
    </Container>
  )
}
```

## ESLint

If you're using ESLint, add `Ext` as an allowed global:

```javascript
"globals": {
    "Ext": true
}
```

## Help Me, I'm Stuck!

We realize that React apps and build configurations vary greatly from project to project.  If you get stuck, come ask for help in the [ExtReact Q&A Forum](https://www.sencha.com/forum/forumdisplay.php?159-Q-amp-A).
